In life, the
only time I feel complete joy is
when someone says, "
You have chosen your ideal, you have
chosen your path, you are
steadfast in
this ideal, and you will never abandon it." That is the
greatest happiness. That is the friend I
still believe will be
my friend forever,
sharing the same ideal, the same
path, able to make myself
happy and then make all beings
happy. I am at peace knowing that
person will face any difficulties without suffering
any troubles. I can
find
[music]
about the kind mother who taught me
the true nature of things, like "this is evil, I should abandon it,
this is good, I must strive to cultivate it." I am grateful to the
teacher, Cao, for her
boundless love and wisdom, listening to all my
suffering and showing me a path.
[music] We are
grateful to you, teacher. We vow to
guide us straight to enlightenment, without fear,
day and night, diligently guiding us to
overcome delusion.
Hien Tu taught me the true nature of
things, this is evil, so I must learn from it,
this is meditation, I must strive to cultivate and contemplate.
She is a teacher with
boundless compassion and wisdom, listening to all
the suffering and showing me a path to enlightenment. We will always remember her, diligently practicing
and spreading the
Dharma to the world, repaying her
kindness.
[Music] We remember
her, our mother Hien Tu, who taught me the true nature of things,
this is evil, so I must learn from it,
this is meditation, I must strive to cultivate and
contemplate. She is a teacher with boundless compassion and wisdom, listening to all the suffering and showing me a path to enlightenment. We will always remember her, diligently practicing and spreading the Dharma to the world,
repaying her kindness.
[Music]
We have so much love and respect. My dear friend
Han Quan, I am very grateful to all the esteemed
Dharma friends. I have heard this song
many, many times, but not yet...
Every time I hear this song,
my heart is filled with emotion. This is the
heartfelt sentiment of the esteemed Dharma friends towards my heart,
and these
are also the words and
thoughts of the Buddhists in the
club. This is also a goal for
all the Buddhists in the club;
everyone will always strive,
everyone will be a
support for the majority, with
that vow. Dear Dharma friends,
today, there are many
Dharma friends here who have accompanied my heart
from the very beginning. I
don't know when it started, but I
truly cherish and love
everyone. When I first learned about Buddhism, I felt
a special joy in my heart,
different from before
I knew about Buddhism. Before knowing Buddhism, I had never fully
experienced
joy in my heart.
That is, I have experienced many joys from childhood to
adulthood, but only
in this state can I
fully touch that joy.  Only when
one truly sees it in one's own heart does one feel
joy.
Among
those encouragements, there is one that encourages
one to become a monk or nun. This
encouragement makes the
mind of
...
And the mind of the practitioner only feels at
peace when that person
maintains the ideal of renunciation.
Because [music] in
this life, as well as in this long, arduous existence,
everywhere is dangerous, there
is no safe place, no safe position,
no safe body, no
safe life. Everywhere is
suffering, no matter what one does, there is suffering. Even when
interacting with people who say, "You have
achieved this, you have done well in business,"
the mind of the practitioner does not have a
state of peace, no
state of inner peace. When that person says, "You have
succeeded in this, you have succeeded in that,"
it does not bring the mind a
state of joy, a state of satisfaction, a
feeling of happiness.
That is, even when hearing, the mind of the
practitioner still observes the anxiety in
its heart. But when a person is determined to renounce the world and
resolutely practice the Buddha's teachings,
naturally, the mind is illuminated, it is
complete, it is at peace, it feels that it
has nothing to worry about, it
feels that this person will...  If they are
happy and there is no danger, they will no longer
be in
danger. However, all other things, the mind of the
Buddha sees danger. Therefore, it is said
that the most meaningful thing a
mind of the Buddha can do, from countless eons to the present,
is to
help
someone come to the
Buddha, to help someone abide in the
ideal of Liberation, to help
someone diligently practice the methods of liberation. Only then is it
truly a meaningful deed.
Because when we help
others with other things, for
example, helping them with a meal, we
see them eat, but
how can we know if they will be hungry again tomorrow? Helping them with
some possessions, if we have them,
how can we guarantee they wo
n't fall into a state of
deprivation again? Helping them overcome a serious
illness, how can we guarantee
they won't return to that state of illness?
Helping them with some suffering,
how can we guarantee they won't return to
that state of suffering again? Therefore,
our help is like giving a drop of
water to
someone dying of thirst; it has no value,
no benefit.  The only thing of value is
helping others attain
enlightenment, achieving absolute enlightenment on the path to
happiness. Only then can one truly understand this
meaningful act; this is what is
officially called helping
others. All
other actions never truly reflect the mind's
awareness of helping someone; they never truly help. The encounter, the chance meeting
in
this world—all encounters are called
non-encounters. Only when the mind reflects the complete contemplation
and that person holds hands and
walks together on the same path do we
know it is a true encounter.
All other encounters are
merely like
a sinking boat;
everyone on board falls into the
sea, holding hands for a moment, then
never to see
each other again. Therefore, for the mind reflecting the complete contemplation, the
most meaningful thing is when people
tell the mind, "I have attained
enlightenment, I have attained
enlightenment," and affirm, "I will certainly
be a child of the Buddha, I will walk the
path the Buddha walked.
No matter what, I will
never abandon
this path." That is the point of greatest happiness; that is the
friend the mind reflects.  Thinking that they will be
my eternal friend,
sharing the same ideals, the same
path, able to make themselves
happy and then make all beings
happy, and with a calm and peaceful mind,
that person will face
any troubles that can overwhelm them.
That is the joy and peace of mind
in life. The only time I feel
complete joy is when someone
says, "
I have chosen my ideal, I have
chosen my path,
I am steadfast in
this ideal, I will not abandon it."
The mind is very at peace, without a
trace of worry.
Therefore, this song is a
song composed by Buddhist practitioners abroad,
but somewhere in the heart of the Lord, I see
a yearning
in each
person,
a hand
pointing into the heart of each
person, wanting to become someone
who brings peace to others who interact with
them.
Only those who are steadfast in the
ideal of liberation are truly a haven of
peace for all beings.
I wish you, dear fellow
practitioners, if anyone is
not yet enlightened, then...  Let's delve deeper
into the Buddha's teachings and the path
so that
we can find peace within ourselves, knowing
that we have stepped out of suffering and
distress. We will officially relieve
our parents of their worries, and free countless
sentient beings from their anxieties. We will not
harm sentient
beings, but only benefit them. We will not
let anyone worry,
but we will not worry about the worries of sentient beings and
everyone else. Dear Dharma Friends, I am
very pleased that you have shared your thoughts and
brought
joy to my heart. In
this life, you have
shown me what joy is, what
joy is, and how to experience joy
in my heart. I have a very clear understanding.
[Music]